tools/kubernetes/README.md, before:

## 1 Program description and configuration:

### 1.1 Program description:

The program is used for monitoring and processing files under folder. If program find any newly added or updated files, the program will read the file and execute the commands in the file. For the files are processed, the program saves the file name into .history file, which is at the same folder for the command file. The content of .history is as following:

```json
[
  {
     "name":"sample.json",	//The file name that has been processed
     "loadTime":1594362344 //The timestamp of processing file
  }
]
```

### 1.2 Command file format and meaning:

| Field       | Optional           | Type     | Description           |
| ----------- | ------------------ | -------- | --------------------- |
| commands    | false              | array    | Command set           |
| url         | false              | string   | http request path     |
| method      | false              | string   | http request method   |
| description | True               | string   | Operation description |
| data        | false for creation | json obj | Creation content      |
|             |                    |          |                       |

### 1.3 Configuration file format and meaning:
```yaml
port: 9081  //eKuiper port
timeout: 500  //Timeout for executing a command (unit: ms)
intervalTime: 60  //interval of Checking the command folder  (unit: seconds)
ip: "127.0.0.1" //eKuiper ip adress
logPath: "./log/kubernetes.log" //Log save path
commandDir: "./sample/" //Command folder path
```
### 1.4 Compile the program:

Execute the command of `go build -o tools/kubernetes/kuiper-kubernetes-tool tools/kubernetes/main.go` to generate the kubernetes program.

## 2 Example of stream operation

### 2.1 create stream1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/streams",
            "description":"create stream1",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "sql":"create stream stream1 (id bigint, name string, score float) WITH ( datasource = \"topic/temperature\", FORMAT = \"json\", KEY = \"id\");"
            }
        }]
}
```

### 2.2 Show stream list
```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/streams",
            "description":"list stream",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```

### 2.3 Get stream1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/streams/stream1",
            "description":"get stream1",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```

### 2.4 Delete stream1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/streams/stream1",
            "description":"del stream1",
            "method":"delete"
        }]
}
```

## 3 Example of rule operation

### 3.1 Create rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules",
            "description":"create rule1",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "id":"rule1",
                "sql":"SELECT * FROM stream1",
                "actions":[
                    {
                        "log":{
                        }
                    }]
            }
        }]
}
```

### 3.2 Show rule list

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules",
            "description":"list rule",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```

### 3.3 Get rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1",
            "description":"get rule1",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```

### 3.4 Delete rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1",
            "description":"del rule1",
            "method":"delete"
        }]
}

```
### 3.5 Stop rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/stop",
            "description":"stop rule1",
            "method":"post"
        }]
}
```

### 3.6 Start rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/start",
            "description":"start rule1",
            "method":"post"
        }]
}
```

### 3.7 Restart rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/restart",
            "description":"restart rule1",
            "method":"post"
        }]
}
```

### 3.8 Replace and restart rules rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1",
            "description":"update rule1",
            "method":"put",
            "data":{
                "id":"rule1",
                "sql":"SELECT * FROM stream1",
                "actions":[
                    {
                        "log":{
                        }
                    }]
            }
        }]
}
```

### 3.9 Show the status of rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/status",
            "description":"get rule1 status",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```

## 4 Example of multiple command sets:

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/streams",
            "description":"create stream1",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "sql":"create stream stream1 (id bigint, name string, score float) WITH ( datasource = \"topic/temperature\", FORMAT = \"json\", KEY = \"id\");"
            }
        },
        {
            "url":"/streams",
            "description":"create stream2",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "sql":"create stream stream2 (id bigint, name string, score float) WITH ( datasource = \"topic/temperature\", FORMAT = \"json\", KEY = \"id\");"
            }
        },
        {
            "url":"/streams",
            "description":"list stream",
            "method":"get"
        },
        {
            "url":"/streams/stream1",
            "description":"get stream1",
            "method":"get"
        },
        {
            "url":"/streams/stream2",
            "description":"del stream2",
            "method":"delete"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules",
            "description":"create rule1",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "id":"rule1",
                "sql":"SELECT * FROM stream1",
                "actions":[
                    {
                        "log":{
                        }
                    }]
            }
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules",
            "description":"create rule2",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "id":"rule2",
                "sql":"SELECT * FROM stream1",
                "actions":[
                    {
                        "log":{
                        }
                    }]
            }
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules",
            "description":"list rule",
            "method":"get"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1",
            "description":"get rule1",
            "method":"get"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule2",
            "description":"del rule2",
            "method":"delete"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/stop",
            "description":"stop rule1",
            "method":"post"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/start",
            "description":"start rule1",
            "method":"post"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/restart",
            "description":"restart rule1",
            "method":"post"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/status",
            "description":"get rule1 status",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```

Commit message:

feat(tool): for ekuiper kubernetes tool, add options for log pint location
Add two options in etc/cf.yaml file for log print
    * consoleLog: true/false
    * fileLog: true/false
Closes: #905

Signed-off-by: Jianxiang Ran <rxan_embedded@163.com>

tools/kubernetes/README.md, after:

## 1 Program description and configuration:

### 1.1 Program description:

The program is used for monitoring and processing files under folder. If program find any newly added or updated files, the program will read the file and execute the commands in the file. For the files are processed, the program saves the file name into .history file, which is at the same folder for the command file. The content of .history is as following:

```json
[
  {
     "name":"sample.json",	//The file name that has been processed
     "loadTime":1594362344 //The timestamp of processing file
  }
]
```

### 1.2 Command file format and meaning:

| Field       | Optional           | Type     | Description           |
| ----------- | ------------------ | -------- | --------------------- |
| commands    | false              | array    | Command set           |
| url         | false              | string   | http request path     |
| method      | false              | string   | http request method   |
| description | True               | string   | Operation description |
| data        | false for creation | json obj | Creation content      |
|             |                    |          |                       |

### 1.3 Configuration file format and meaning:
```yaml
port: 9081  //eKuiper port
timeout: 500  //Timeout for executing a command (unit: ms)
intervalTime: 60  //interval of Checking the command folder  (unit: seconds)
ip: "127.0.0.1" //eKuiper ip adress
consoleLog: true  //true|false, if it's set to true, then the log will be print to console
fileLog: false  //true|false, if it's set to true, then the log will be print to log file "logPath"
logPath: "./log/kubernetes.log" //Log save path
commandDir: "./sample/" //Command folder path
```
### 1.4 Compile the program:

Execute the command of `go build -o tools/kubernetes/kuiper-kubernetes-tool tools/kubernetes/main.go` to generate the kubernetes program.

## 2 Example of stream operation

### 2.1 create stream1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/streams",
            "description":"create stream1",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "sql":"create stream stream1 (id bigint, name string, score float) WITH ( datasource = \"topic/temperature\", FORMAT = \"json\", KEY = \"id\");"
            }
        }]
}
```

### 2.2 Show stream list
```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/streams",
            "description":"list stream",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```

### 2.3 Get stream1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/streams/stream1",
            "description":"get stream1",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```

### 2.4 Delete stream1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/streams/stream1",
            "description":"del stream1",
            "method":"delete"
        }]
}
```

## 3 Example of rule operation

### 3.1 Create rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules",
            "description":"create rule1",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "id":"rule1",
                "sql":"SELECT * FROM stream1",
                "actions":[
                    {
                        "log":{
                        }
                    }]
            }
        }]
}
```

### 3.2 Show rule list

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules",
            "description":"list rule",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```

### 3.3 Get rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1",
            "description":"get rule1",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```

### 3.4 Delete rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1",
            "description":"del rule1",
            "method":"delete"
        }]
}

```
### 3.5 Stop rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/stop",
            "description":"stop rule1",
            "method":"post"
        }]
}
```

### 3.6 Start rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/start",
            "description":"start rule1",
            "method":"post"
        }]
}
```

### 3.7 Restart rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/restart",
            "description":"restart rule1",
            "method":"post"
        }]
}
```

### 3.8 Replace and restart rules rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1",
            "description":"update rule1",
            "method":"put",
            "data":{
                "id":"rule1",
                "sql":"SELECT * FROM stream1",
                "actions":[
                    {
                        "log":{
                        }
                    }]
            }
        }]
}
```

### 3.9 Show the status of rule1

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/status",
            "description":"get rule1 status",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```

## 4 Example of multiple command sets:

```json
{
    "commands":[
        {
            "url":"/streams",
            "description":"create stream1",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "sql":"create stream stream1 (id bigint, name string, score float) WITH ( datasource = \"topic/temperature\", FORMAT = \"json\", KEY = \"id\");"
            }
        },
        {
            "url":"/streams",
            "description":"create stream2",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "sql":"create stream stream2 (id bigint, name string, score float) WITH ( datasource = \"topic/temperature\", FORMAT = \"json\", KEY = \"id\");"
            }
        },
        {
            "url":"/streams",
            "description":"list stream",
            "method":"get"
        },
        {
            "url":"/streams/stream1",
            "description":"get stream1",
            "method":"get"
        },
        {
            "url":"/streams/stream2",
            "description":"del stream2",
            "method":"delete"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules",
            "description":"create rule1",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "id":"rule1",
                "sql":"SELECT * FROM stream1",
                "actions":[
                    {
                        "log":{
                        }
                    }]
            }
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules",
            "description":"create rule2",
            "method":"post",
            "data":{
                "id":"rule2",
                "sql":"SELECT * FROM stream1",
                "actions":[
                    {
                        "log":{
                        }
                    }]
            }
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules",
            "description":"list rule",
            "method":"get"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1",
            "description":"get rule1",
            "method":"get"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule2",
            "description":"del rule2",
            "method":"delete"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/stop",
            "description":"stop rule1",
            "method":"post"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/start",
            "description":"start rule1",
            "method":"post"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/restart",
            "description":"restart rule1",
            "method":"post"
        },
        {
            "url":"/rules/rule1/status",
            "description":"get rule1 status",
            "method":"get"
        }]
}
```
