docs/en_US/plugins/sinks/taos.md, before:

## Compile the plugins

### plugins/go.mod

```go
module plugins

go 1.13

replace github.com/emqx/kuiper => /$kuiper

require (
    github.com/emqx/kuiper v0.0.0-00010101000000-000000000000 // indirect
    github.com/taosdata/driver-go v0.0.0-20200723061832-5be6460b0c20
)
```

```shell
go mod edit -replace github.com/emqx/kuiper=/$kuiper
go build --buildmode=plugin -o /$kuiper/plugins/sinks/Taos@v1.0.0.so /$kuiper/plugins/sinks/taos.go
```

## Rule Actions Description

| Name     | Type     | Optional                                          | Description            |
| -------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| ip       | string   | false                                             | Database ip            |
| port     | int      | false                                             | Database port          |
| user     | string   | false                                             | Username               |
| password | string   | false                                             | Password               |
| database | string   | false                                             | Database name          |
| table    | string   | false                                             | Table Name             |
| fields   | []string | true（Replace with data key when not filling in） | Table field collection |

## Operation example

### To create a database or table, refer to the following documents:

```http
https://www.taosdata.com/cn/getting-started/
```

### Create a stream

```curl
curl --location --request POST 'http://127.0.0.1:9081/streams' --header 'Content-Type:application/json' --data '{"sql":"create stream demoStream(time string, age BIGINT) WITH ( DATASOURCE = \"device/+/message\", FORMAT = \"json\");"}'
```

### Create a rule

```curl
curl --location --request POST 'http://127.0.0.1:9081/rules' --header 'Content-Type:application/json' --data '{"id":"demoRule","sql":"SELECT * FROM demoStream;","actions":[{"taos":{"port":0,"ip":"127.0.0.1","user":"root","password":"taosdata","database":"dbName","table":"tableName","fields":["time","age"]}}]}'
```

### Send data

```curl
mosquitto_pub -h broker.emqx.io -m '{"time":"2020-01-11 18:18:18", "age" : 18}' -t device/device_001/message
```

Commit message:

Taos timsstamp (#543)
* feat():taos timestamp and del en_US/manager-ui/image

* feat():taos timestamp format

* feat():time.Now()->now

* doc():taos timestamp doc

* feat():taos timestamp doc and metadata

Co-authored-by: EMqmyd <mayuedong@emx.io>

docs/en_US/plugins/sinks/taos.md, after:

## Compile the plugins

### plugins/go.mod

```go
module plugins

go 1.13

replace github.com/emqx/kuiper => /$kuiper

require (
    github.com/emqx/kuiper v0.0.0-00010101000000-000000000000 // indirect
    github.com/taosdata/driver-go v0.0.0-20200723061832-5be6460b0c20
)
```

```shell
go mod edit -replace github.com/emqx/kuiper=/$kuiper
go build --buildmode=plugin -o /$kuiper/plugins/sinks/Taos@v1.0.0.so /$kuiper/plugins/sinks/taos.go
```

## Rule Actions Description

As the taos database requires a time stamp field in the table, the user must inform the time stamp field name of the data table (required tsFieldName). The user can choose whether to provide time stamp data. If not (provideTs=false), the content of the time stamp field is automatically generated by the taos database.

| Name        | Type     | Optional                                          | Description                                 |
| ----------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| ip          | string   | false                                             | Database ip                                 |
| port        | int      | false                                             | Database port                               |
| user        | string   | false                                             | Username                                    |
| password    | string   | false                                             | Password                                    |
| database    | string   | false                                             | Database name                               |
| table       | string   | false                                             | Table Name                                  |
| fields      | []string | true（Replace with data key when not filling in） | Table field collection                      |
| provideTs   | Bool     | false                                             | Whether the user provides a timestamp field |
| tsFieldName | String   | false                                             | Timestamp field name                        |

## Operation example

### To create a database or table, refer to the following documents:

```http
https://www.taosdata.com/cn/getting-started/
```

### Create a stream

```curl
curl --location --request POST 'http://127.0.0.1:9081/streams' --header 'Content-Type:application/json' --data '{"sql":"create stream demoStream(time string, age BIGINT) WITH ( DATASOURCE = \"device/+/message\", FORMAT = \"json\");"}'
```

### Create a rule

```curl
curl --location --request POST 'http://127.0.0.1:9081/rules' --header 'Content-Type:application/json' --data '{"id":"demoRule","sql":"SELECT * FROM demoStream;","actions":[{"taos":{"port":0,"ip":"127.0.0.1","user":"root","password":"taosdata","database":"dbName","table":"tableName","fields":["time","age"]}}]}'
```

### Send data

```curl
mosquitto_pub -h broker.emqx.io -m '{"time":"2020-01-11 18:18:18", "age" : 18}' -t device/device_001/message
```
