docs/en_US/rules/sources/edgex.md, before:

# EdgeX Source

Kuiper provides built-in support for EdgeX source stream, which can subscribe the message from [EdgeX message bus](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/go-mod-messaging) and feed into the Kuiper streaming process pipeline.  

## Stream definition for EdgeX

EdgeX already defines data types in [value descriptors](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/go-mod-core-contracts), so it's recommeded to use schema-less stream definition in EdgeX source as in below.

```shell
# cd $kuiper_base
# bin/cli CREATE STREAM demo'() with(format="json", datasource="demo" type="edgex")'
```

EdgeX source will try to get the data type of a field, 

- convert to releated data type if field of a type can be found in value descriptors service;
- or keep original value if  field of a type can not be found in value descriptors service;
- or if failed to conver the value, then the value will be **dropped**, and a warning message print in the log;

The types defined in EdgeX value descriptors will be converted into related [data types](../../sqls/streams.md) that supported in Kuiper.

### Boolean

If  ``Type`` value of ``ValueDescriptor`` is ``Bool``, then Kuiper tries to convert to ``boolean`` type. Following values will be converted into ``true``.

- "1", "t", "T", "true", "TRUE", "True" 

Following will be converted into ``false``.

- "0", "f", "F", "false", "FALSE", "False"

### Bigint

If  ``Type`` value of ``ValueDescriptor`` is ``INT8`` , ``INT16``, ``INT32``,  ``INT64``,``UINT`` , ``UINT8`` , ``UINT16`` ,  ``UINT32`` , ``UINT64`` then Kuiper tries to convert to ``Bigint`` type. 

### Float

If  ``Type`` value of ``ValueDescriptor`` is ``FLOAT16`` , ``FLOAT32``, ``FLOAT64``then Kuiper tries to convert to ``Float`` type. 

### String

If  ``Type`` value of ``ValueDescriptor`` is ``String``, then Kuiper tries to convert to ``String`` type. 

# Global configurations

The configuration file of EdgeX source is at ``$kuiper/etc/sources/edgex.yaml``. Below is the file format.

```yaml
#Global Edgex configurations
default:
  protocol: tcp
  server: localhost
  port: 5573
  topic: events
  serviceServer: http://localhost:48080
#  optional:
#    ClientId: client1
#    Username: user1
#    Password: password
```



Use can specify the global EdgeX settings here. The configuration items specified in ``default`` section will be taken as default settings for all EdgeX source. 

## protocol

The protocol connect to EdgeX message bus, default value is ``tcp``.

## server

The server address of  EdgeX message bus, default value is ``localhost``.

## port

The port of EdgeX message bus, default value is ``5573``.

## topic

The topic name of EdgeX message bus,  default value is ``events``.

## serviceServer

The base service address for getting value descriptors, the value of ``serviceServer`` will be concatenated to ``/api/v1/valuedescriptor`` to get all of value descriptors of EdgeX server.

## type

The EdgeX message bus type, currently two types of message buses are supported. If specified other values, then will use the default ``zero`` value.

- ``zero``: Use ZeroMQ as EdgeX message bus. 
- ``mqtt``: Use the MQTT broker as EdgeX message bus.

## optional

If MQTT message bus is used, some other optional configurations can be specified. Please notice that all of values in optional are **<u>string type</u>**, so values for these configurations should be string - such as ``KeepAlive: "5000"``. Below optional configurations are supported, please check MQTT specification for the detailed information.

- ClientId

- Username
- Password
- Qos
- KeepAlive
- Retained
- ConnectionPayload
- CertFile
- KeyFile
- CertPEMBlock
- KeyPEMBlock
- SkipCertVerify

## Override the default settings

In some cases, maybe you want to consume message from multiple topics from message bus.  Kuiper supports to specify another configuration, and use the ``CONF_KEY`` to specify the newly created key when you create a stream.

```yaml
#Override the global configurations
demo1: #Conf_key
  protocol: tcp
  server: 10.211.55.6
  port: 5571
  topic: events
```

If you have a specific connection that need to overwrite the default settings, you can create a customized section. In the previous sample, we create a specific setting named with ``demo1``.  Then you can specify the configuration with option ``CONF_KEY`` when creating the stream definition (see [stream specs](../../sqls/streams.md) for more info).

**Sample**

```
create stream demo1() WITH (FORMAT="JSON", type="edgex", CONF_KEY="demo1");
```

The configuration keys used for these specific settings are the same as in ``default`` settings, any values specified in specific settings will overwrite the values in ``default`` section.

Commit message:

docs(file): update data types support docs in EdgeX

docs/en_US/rules/sources/edgex.md, after:

# EdgeX Source

Kuiper provides built-in support for EdgeX source stream, which can subscribe the message from [EdgeX message bus](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/go-mod-messaging) and feed into the Kuiper streaming process pipeline.  

## Stream definition for EdgeX

EdgeX already defines data types in [value descriptors](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/go-mod-core-contracts), so it's recommeded to use schema-less stream definition in EdgeX source as in below.

```shell
# cd $kuiper_base
# bin/cli CREATE STREAM demo'() with(format="json", datasource="demo" type="edgex")'
```

EdgeX source will try to get the data type of a field, 

- convert to releated data type if field of a type can be found in value descriptors service;
- or keep original value if  field of a type can not be found in value descriptors service;
- or if failed to conver the value, then the value will be **dropped**, and a warning message print in the log;

The types defined in EdgeX value descriptors will be converted into related [data types](../../sqls/streams.md) that supported in Kuiper.

### Boolean

If  ``Type`` value of ``ValueDescriptor`` is ``Bool``, then Kuiper tries to convert to ``boolean`` type. Following values will be converted into ``true``.

- "1", "t", "T", "true", "TRUE", "True" 

Following will be converted into ``false``.

- "0", "f", "F", "false", "FALSE", "False"

### Bigint

If  ``Type`` value of ``ValueDescriptor`` is ``INT8`` , ``INT16``, ``INT32``,  ``INT64``,``UINT`` , ``UINT8`` , ``UINT16`` ,  ``UINT32`` , ``UINT64`` then Kuiper tries to convert to ``Bigint`` type. 

### Float

If  ``Type`` value of ``ValueDescriptor`` is ``FLOAT32``, ``FLOAT64``, then Kuiper tries to convert to ``Float`` type. 

### String

If  ``Type`` value of ``ValueDescriptor`` is ``String``, then Kuiper tries to convert to ``String`` type. 

### Boolean array

`Bool` array type in EdgeX will be converted to `boolean` array.

### Bigint array

All of ``INT8`` , ``INT16``, ``INT32``,  ``INT64``,``UINT`` , ``UINT8`` , ``UINT16`` ,  ``UINT32`` , ``UINT64``  array types in EdgeX will be converted to `Bigint` array.

### Float array

All of ``FLOAT32``, ``FLOAT64``  array types in EdgeX will be converted to `Float` array.

# Global configurations

The configuration file of EdgeX source is at ``$kuiper/etc/sources/edgex.yaml``. Below is the file format.

```yaml
#Global Edgex configurations
default:
  protocol: tcp
  server: localhost
  port: 5573
  topic: events
  serviceServer: http://localhost:48080
#  optional:
#    ClientId: client1
#    Username: user1
#    Password: password
```



Use can specify the global EdgeX settings here. The configuration items specified in ``default`` section will be taken as default settings for all EdgeX source. 

## protocol

The protocol connect to EdgeX message bus, default value is ``tcp``.

## server

The server address of  EdgeX message bus, default value is ``localhost``.

## port

The port of EdgeX message bus, default value is ``5573``.

## topic

The topic name of EdgeX message bus,  default value is ``events``.

## serviceServer

The base service address for getting value descriptors, the value of ``serviceServer`` will be concatenated to ``/api/v1/valuedescriptor`` to get all of value descriptors of EdgeX server.

## type

The EdgeX message bus type, currently two types of message buses are supported. If specified other values, then will use the default ``zero`` value.

- ``zero``: Use ZeroMQ as EdgeX message bus. 
- ``mqtt``: Use the MQTT broker as EdgeX message bus.

## optional

If MQTT message bus is used, some other optional configurations can be specified. Please notice that all of values in optional are **<u>string type</u>**, so values for these configurations should be string - such as ``KeepAlive: "5000"``. Below optional configurations are supported, please check MQTT specification for the detailed information.

- ClientId

- Username
- Password
- Qos
- KeepAlive
- Retained
- ConnectionPayload
- CertFile
- KeyFile
- CertPEMBlock
- KeyPEMBlock
- SkipCertVerify

## Override the default settings

In some cases, maybe you want to consume message from multiple topics from message bus.  Kuiper supports to specify another configuration, and use the ``CONF_KEY`` to specify the newly created key when you create a stream.

```yaml
#Override the global configurations
demo1: #Conf_key
  protocol: tcp
  server: 10.211.55.6
  port: 5571
  topic: events
```

If you have a specific connection that need to overwrite the default settings, you can create a customized section. In the previous sample, we create a specific setting named with ``demo1``.  Then you can specify the configuration with option ``CONF_KEY`` when creating the stream definition (see [stream specs](../../sqls/streams.md) for more info).

**Sample**

```
create stream demo1() WITH (FORMAT="JSON", type="edgex", CONF_KEY="demo1");
```

The configuration keys used for these specific settings are the same as in ``default`` settings, any values specified in specific settings will overwrite the values in ``default`` section.
