docs/en_US/quick_start_docker.md, before:

## 5 minutes quick start

1. Pull a Kuiper Docker image from ``https://hub.docker.com/r/emqx/kuiper/tags``.

2. Set Kuiper source to an MQTT server. This sample uses server locating at ``tcp://broker.emqx.io:1883``. ``broker.emqx.io`` is a public MQTT test server hosted by [EMQ](https://www.emqx.io).

   ```shell
   docker run -d --name kuiper -e MQTT_BROKER_ADDRESS=tcp://broker.emqx.io:1883 emqx/kuiper:$tag
   ```

3. Create a stream - the stream is your stream data schema, similar to table definition in database. Let's say the temperature & humidity data are sent to ``broker.emqx.io``, and those data will be processed in your **LOCAL RUN** Kuiper docker instance.  Below steps will create a stream named ``demo``, and data are sent to ``devices/device_001/messages`` topic, while ``device_001`` could be other devices, such as ``device_002``, all of those data will be subscribed and handled by ``demo`` stream.

   ```shell
   -- In host
   # docker exec -it kuiper /bin/sh
   
   -- In docker instance
   # bin/cli create stream demo '(temperature float, humidity bigint) WITH (FORMAT="JSON", DATASOURCE="devices/+/messages")'
   Connecting to 127.0.0.1:20498...
   Stream demo is created.
   
   # bin/cli query
   Connecting to 127.0.0.1:20498...
   kuiper > select * from demo where temperature > 30;
   Query was submit successfully.
   
   ```

4. Publish sensor data to topic ``devices/device_001/messages`` of server ``tcp://broker.emqx.io:1883`` with any [MQTT client tools](https://medium.com/@emqtt/mqtt-client-tools-215ff7a17ad). Below sample uses ``mosquitto_pub``. 

   ```shell
   # mosquitto_pub -h broker.emqx.io -m '{"temperature": 40, "humidity" : 20}' -t devices/device_001/messages
   ```

5. If everything goes well,  you can see the message is print on docker ``bin/cli query`` window. Please try to publish another message with ``temperature`` less than 30, and it will be filtered by WHERE condition of the SQL. 

   ```
   kuiper > select * from demo WHERE temperature > 30;
   [{"temperature": 40, "humidity" : 20}]
   ```

   If having any problems, please take a look at ``log/stream.log``.

6. To stop the test, just press ``ctrl + c `` in ``bin/cli query`` command console, or input `exit` and press enter.

7. Next for exploring more powerful features of EMQ X  Kuiper? Refer to below for how to apply EMQ X Kuiper in edge and integrate with AWS / Azure IoT cloud.

   - [Lightweight edge computing EMQ X Kuiper and Azure IoT Hub integration solution](https://www.emqx.io/blog/85) 
   - [Lightweight edge computing EMQ X Kuiper and AWS IoT Hub integration solution](https://www.emqx.io/blog/88)

Commit message:

docs(file): Tell user to use alpine Docker images in tutorial

docs/en_US/quick_start_docker.md, after:

## 5 minutes quick start

1. Pull a Kuiper Docker image from ``https://hub.docker.com/r/emqx/kuiper/tags``. It's recommended to use `alpine` image in this tutorial (refer to [Kuiper Docker](https://hub.docker.com/r/emqx/kuiper) for the difference of Kuiper Docker image variants). 

2. Set Kuiper source to an MQTT server. This sample uses server locating at ``tcp://broker.emqx.io:1883``. ``broker.emqx.io`` is a public MQTT test server hosted by [EMQ](https://www.emqx.io).

   ```shell
   docker run -d --name kuiper -e MQTT_BROKER_ADDRESS=tcp://broker.emqx.io:1883 emqx/kuiper:$tag
   ```

3. Create a stream - the stream is your stream data schema, similar to table definition in database. Let's say the temperature & humidity data are sent to ``broker.emqx.io``, and those data will be processed in your **LOCAL RUN** Kuiper docker instance.  Below steps will create a stream named ``demo``, and data are sent to ``devices/device_001/messages`` topic, while ``device_001`` could be other devices, such as ``device_002``, all of those data will be subscribed and handled by ``demo`` stream.

   ```shell
   -- In host
   # docker exec -it kuiper /bin/sh
   
   -- In docker instance
   # bin/cli create stream demo '(temperature float, humidity bigint) WITH (FORMAT="JSON", DATASOURCE="devices/+/messages")'
   Connecting to 127.0.0.1:20498...
   Stream demo is created.
   
   # bin/cli query
   Connecting to 127.0.0.1:20498...
   kuiper > select * from demo where temperature > 30;
   Query was submit successfully.
   
   ```

4. Publish sensor data to topic ``devices/device_001/messages`` of server ``tcp://broker.emqx.io:1883`` with any [MQTT client tools](https://medium.com/@emqtt/mqtt-client-tools-215ff7a17ad). Below sample uses ``mosquitto_pub``. 

   ```shell
   # mosquitto_pub -h broker.emqx.io -m '{"temperature": 40, "humidity" : 20}' -t devices/device_001/messages
   ```

5. If everything goes well,  you can see the message is print on docker ``bin/cli query`` window. Please try to publish another message with ``temperature`` less than 30, and it will be filtered by WHERE condition of the SQL. 

   ```
   kuiper > select * from demo WHERE temperature > 30;
   [{"temperature": 40, "humidity" : 20}]
   ```

   If having any problems, please take a look at ``log/stream.log``.

6. To stop the test, just press ``ctrl + c `` in ``bin/cli query`` command console, or input `exit` and press enter.

7. Next for exploring more powerful features of EMQ X  Kuiper? Refer to below for how to apply EMQ X Kuiper in edge and integrate with AWS / Azure IoT cloud.

   - [Lightweight edge computing EMQ X Kuiper and Azure IoT Hub integration solution](https://www.emqx.io/blog/85) 
   - [Lightweight edge computing EMQ X Kuiper and AWS IoT Hub integration solution](https://www.emqx.io/blog/88)
